Israel has now imposed what it calls a
total blockade of The Enclave cutting
off food Fuel and power Israel is
threatening further military action and
is calling up
300,000 reservists they're being
reinforced or those reinforcements
rather are being sent to Southern Israel
and the military says it has taken
control of those border towns which were
overrun by Hamas gunman but there are
reports that some fighting is ongoing
for the latest let's bring in villain
Marx who joins us from West Jerusalem
Israel has now imposed what it calls a
Complete Siege what are you hearing on
the ground
there so the defense minister yav Gan
has been speaking over the last couple
of hours following a security assessment
with the Israeli military's command in
the south of Israel he's been talking in
quite Stark language about what the
Israeli military and other agencies will
be doing he said that he has ordered a
full Siege on the Gaza Strip quote no
power no food no gas no electricity
everything is closed we are fighting he
says Human animals and we act
accordingly the death toll amongst
Israelis has now risen above 800 and
there is a very clear sense of anger
amongst the people I speak to here in
West Jerusalem in conversations many of
them saying they are prepared for the
Israeli military to carry out what they
acknowledged would constitute war crimes
in Gaza if it was able to achieve what
they would like to see many of them
telling me which is the destruction of
the Armed faction Hamas inside the Gaza
Strip politically this is a very complex
moment for Mr Netanyahu the Prime
Minister here because he's meeting with
some of his political opponents through
Representatives trying to figure out
whether there is the possibility of
creating an emergency Unity cabinet
essentially uniting different political
parties behind the Israeli military in
particular ahead of what could be a very
difficult few days ahead of them Israel
has a huge pool of reservists to draw on
as we've been reporting how is that
playing out on the ground it's likely to
be likely going to be quite a logistic
feat yeah they've announced over the
course of the last few hours 300,000
reservists have now been called up there
is a huge pool of people across this
country who've served in the isra
military at some point typically during
their younger years many of them choose
to remain as active reservists meaning
they can be called upon during
situations like this that will happen
through phone calls emails even text
messages they'll be informed that they
are being called up they will then have
to report to a local office and
essentially then be deployed to their
unit wherever that may be many of those
of course in that area around Gaza but
let's not forget because of a military
activity involving the Israeli military
and Hezbollah in the North North of
Israel Southern Lebanon also quite
significant numbers of both weaponry and
Personnel being deployed up to Israel's
northern border as well some of the
discussions have centered around how
this attack on Saturday has somewhat
unified the Israeli government and
politicians there is that what you're
hearing over the course of this year you
know essentially this government that Mr
Netanyahu lead is a very narrow majority
inside the keset the Israeli Parliament
he's had to Ally himself with some Far
Right parties and that has created a
huge amount of dissatisfaction amongst
many ordinary Israelis who' not voted
for Mr netanyahu's liud party and the
challenge throughout the last few months
has been for Mr Netanyahu to try and
find common ground with his political
opponents we've not seen very much of
that until this past weekend several
senior opposition leaders now saying
they are prepared to work with Mr
Netanyahu in some kind of emergency
government Emily except for one of them
in particular saying he would attach
conditions to any kind of cooperation Mr
yed saying that he would only take part
in an emergency government with
Netanyahu if Mr Netanyahu was to fire
some of his most senior ministers from
his far-right Alliance parties and
that's not something that's going to be
taken lightly by Mr Netanyahu given his
razor thin majority in the conet vill I
want to ask you another question but
before I do I just want to remind our
audience that some of the pictures that
they're seeing on their screen are quite
harrowing and viewer discretion uh
should be advised or it should be
observed at this point because they
really are quite devastating images uh
returning to you now
villum where to from here we're hearing
there could be plan plans of a ground
invasion of Gaza obviously the
intelligence from the Israeli military
will be tight lipped they'll be keeping
their cards close to their chest but
have you heard any intel from that
perspective given that there are
hundreds of thousands of reservers being
called
up no specific Intel but you know it's
very clear that when you have that kind
of operation in mind you will need vast
numbers of ground forces infantry in
particular in order to try and intrude
on such a massive area very heavy po
heavily populated area we've seen just
continued air strikes so far but the
quantity of Tanks armored personnel
carriers artillery that seem to be
massing close to Gaza according to our
colleague Charlie statford Who's down
near sedot at the moment seems to
indicate that a ground Invasion an
incursion inside Gaza past that barrier
fence that Hamas itself breached several
places over the course of the weekend
cannot be ruled out at this point okay
thanks so much for bringing us up to
speed vill marks in West Jerusalem